(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] Let's take a look at one way
to complete the challenge.
To begin building an API definition,
we need to specify three required fields.
The first is the open API field
where we specify the version of the OAS specification
that we'll be using.
In our case that's version three.
Next is the info field.
Within the info field,
we can specify the version of the API
as well as a title for it.
In this case,
it's going to be the H Plus Blog API.
And then finally,
we're able to specify the paths on the API definition.
Within the paths field,
we're going to go ahead and specify an article path
that's going to be used to retrieve articles from the API.
Because we're retrieving resources,
it's appropriate to use the get operation.
So we'll specify that underneath this path.
Next we'll describe the operation's response
in the content it returns.
In this case,
we'd like to describe the 200 HTTP response
that's going to return an array
of articles in JSON format.
So underneath the HTTP status code,
we'll first add a description.
We'll say it's a page of articles.
And then we're going to go ahead
and describe the content itself.
In this case,
it's going to be in JSON format
so we can go ahead and specify the mine type.
The next field is the schema object
that defines the response body returned by the operation.
This is where the actual data or content is described,
which in this case is an array of article objects.
So we'll go ahead and specify the type as array
and then we'll need to describe the items
within that array and their data type,
which will be of type object.
The article object will contain properties
whose values describe the article.
So we're going to now add those properties
within the properties field.
The first will be the created date property
and here we're going to specify that its type is a string
but then we'll specify that the format is a date.
Next we're going to add the tagline
which will also be a string.
We'll follow that with the content of the actual article
which will be of type string.
And then we'll specify the category
And then finally,
we're going to add the tags property
which is going to be an array,
so we also need to describe the items
in the array and their data type.
Finally to tighten things up,
we're going to add tags to our operation
so it can be grouped under the article resource.
So right before the paths,
I'm going to go ahead and add the tags field
and we can specify our first tag and its name,
which is going to be article.
And then we can give a description of that tag.
We can say articles for the H Plus Sport Blog.
After we've defined the tag,
we can then add it to the operation using the tags field
underneath the get operation.
Here, I'll just specify that we'd like
to use the article tag and you'll notice that it shows up
within our documentation.
We can also take a look at the end point
that we just created,
and we can see the article response from our operation.
That completes our solution for the challenge,
which should have made you more comfortable using YAML, OAS,
and the Swagger Editor to build an API definition.